+++
title = "Where Have You Been?"
date = "2022-10-03T11:01:31+02:00"
cover = ""
tags = ["", ""]
keywords = ["", ""]
description = ""
showFullContent = false
readingTime = true
draft = true
+++
I wrote a [long post](/about) about why I would like to start this blog around seven months ago and from then on, I didn't post anything.. What I found out during this time is that it is really hard to start writing about something! What exactly is hard I don't exactly know! But I have some guesses. It might be hard to find something meaningful or worth sharing, or it might be hard to be incentivized enough to start writing. Or maybe a combination of both!

When I track my feelings I had when I started this blog, it all started with a revolutionary thought that what I am used to in my life, is not satisfactory for me. I sensed that I need to improve my way of thinking. I sensed that I cannot explain what is happening around me with what I know. So I felt I need to dive deeper in my thoughts, hence writing about them and try to organize the ideas in my head. However, I didn't know what to write about, where to start and how to manage this organization of ideas although I was contemplating about them constantly. Today I am writing again and the reason is another event that pushed me to do so. This time not in my head. But externally!

I am from Iran, a country in middle east, also known as Persia. Since my childhood, I was living under the shadow of a totalitarian regime. But that is not all about this land! Iran was a cradle for civilizations since five thousand years ago, one of the oldest in the world. It was home to various dynasties and kings, some benevolent, some vicious. The land experienced glory as well as misery, pride as well as humiliation and freedom as well as oppression in its time. This cycle went on and on for thousands of years and now in the modern times, we are living in a desperate time. Like of which I'm not sure happened before.

There is something very unique about learning the history of a country and that is, in a very short time, like an hour in your lifetime, you can read about the summary of events of hundreds of years in the past. Yet, you yourself, only live 70 years in average. So the events you witness in your lifetime, can be summarized in less than an hour read for the next generations. This extremely unmatched proportion of time, makes it way too hard to identify the patterns you see in history and apply them to the current events. Of-course, things can become more clear if you spend more time and read more about the details of the past events, analyze them carefully, adjust your mindset and judge the narratives. This is what historians do who are specialized in this. But talking about me, as a person not specialized and not willing to spend my whole life, reading about history. The practical way of "learning" history for me is to read the summary of events and trust the source that it is what happened. Hence I'll for sure lose a lot of context and insight about how they happened and how related those are to the current situation we are living in.

I am sure I am not alone with that kind of learning about history. In fact, the majority of people do not even read that summary! So what is practical in this situation? What is the underlying mechanism of people learning about the past? Well, I think it is the same mechanism that was sculpting the human behavior since the beginning of them apes: we pass it down as a story!

There is a reason why we all like stories. Stories are designed to bombard you with interesting stuff, they maintain a good pace about narrating the events, and they won't let you get bored. We are evolved to like them, to feel excited about them as they are more interesting than sitting around spending your time looking at the boring uneventful nature. We, after all, are capable of abstract thinking and we gained so much out of it. So as eating gives you pleasure because you need it to develop your body and sex is fun because it allows you to reproduce, stories are exciting because it helps practicing your abstract thinking by "imagining" those tales to be true.

Not always the stories have to be lies, in fact, stories can play major roles in passing down the truth. Of-course, because you want a story to be more interesting and engaging, they have a tendency to be falsified to a degree after some narrations. But still, this is the form we are used to, and this is the widely popular media people are willing to pay attention to.

Going back to history, what I think really happens is that at any point in time, some narrations or stories, of the past will become dominant depending on how true, interesting and relatable they are. Indeed, disputes will always exist about what narration is correct and should be dominated but I think there is a mechanism even for that. You see, older events are less likely to become a moot point when people talk about history. They are subjects for study by historians for sure, but normal people rarely have to and will adjust their imagination about the older events. In an specific generation, we just have similar stories in our heads about the ancient times. But for more recent events, there is a constant battle between different narrations. They have not become concrete yet and one of them needs to become dominant eventually. This battle is not only fought by historians and politicians but also normal people, in almost infinite number, play a part. A battle which its instrument can be either facts, debates and reasoning but also fallacy, fraud, profanity and violence! We are living in a war over stories and Machiavellian methods are open to use by anyone!

Now, the dominant stories from the past might be true completely but also lies in some parts. Individuals can object to it, saying for instance, this dominant narration is not what really happened but what is reality if not something that is accepted by the majority? Trying to be practical, I see the dominant stories as the environment, the set scene for the current fight at hand. It is the air we breathe and it is what anything else is built upon.

Now that we know what is my sick definition of "practical history", I'll recap the mega story I heard about Iran!

Once upon a time, this land has been walked on by some of the oldest people we have evidences on. From neanderthals to recent homo-sapiens, it hosted nature and human species as well as all kinds of creatures. But is it relevant to what Iran is as a country? I don't think so. Fast forward to Medes, who settled and unified Iran as a whole nation and 625 BC then Achaemenid Empire, founded by Cyrus the Great, was the first Persian empire.

Let's wait a moment here, because this Cyrus king, plays a major part in how we define ourselves as Iranians. He is considered a benevolent and gracious king who brought prosperity and unification to Iran. Though he really was into his conquest adventures, and died after 30 years of his reign in a battle against Massageteans, he treated people good and did not force any costume or religion in the lands he conquered. He is well known for respecting human rights and the vast influence he had on eastern and western civilization.


{{< graphcomment >}}